[Pages] Adding tutorials for HTML and React forms with Formspree (#3090)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/pages/src/content/tutorials/add-an-html-form-with-formspree/index.md

---
updated: 2021-11-30
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: "📝 Tutorial"
pcx-content-type: tutorial
---

> # Add an HTML Form with Formspree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add an HTML form with Formspree
```

To create a Formspree form, sign up for [an account on Formspree](https://formspree.io/register).

Next, create a new form with the **+ New form** button. Name it `Contact-us form` and update the recipient email to an email where you wish to receive your form submissions. Then select **Create Form**.

<GatsbyImage image="./new-form-dialog.png" alt="Creating a Formspree form" />

![Creating a Formspree form](./new-form-dialog.png)

You will then be presented with instructions on how to integrate your new form. 

![Formspree endpoint](./form-endpoint.png)

Copy the `Form Endpoint` URL and paste it into the `action` attribute of the form you created above. 

```html
<form method="POST" action="https://formspree.io/f/mqldaqwx">

<!-- replace with your own formspree endpoint -->

```

Now when you submit your form, you should be redirected to a thank-you page. The form data will be submitted to your account on Formspree.io. 

> From here you can adjust your form processing logic to change the [redirect page](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360012378333--Thank-You-redirect), update the [notification email address](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/115008379348-Changing-a-form-email-address), or add plugins like [Google Sheets](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360036563573-Use-Google-Sheets-to-send-your-submissions-to-a-spreadsheet), [Slack](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360045648933-Send-Slack-notifications) and more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now adjust your form processing logic to change the [redirect page](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360012378333--Thank-You-redirect), update the [notification email address](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/115008379348-Changing-a-form-email-address), or add plugins like [Google Sheets](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360036563573-Use-Google-Sheets-to-send-your-submissions-to-a-spreadsheet), [Slack](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360045648933-Send-Slack-notifications) and more.
```

For more help setting up Formspree, refer to the following resources:

- For general help with Formspree, refer to the [Formspree help site](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us).
- For examples and inspiration for your own HTML forms, review the [Formspree form library](https://formspree.io/library).
- For tips on integrating Formspree with popular platforms like Next.js, Gatsby and Eleventy, refer to the [Formspree guides](https://formspree.io/guides).

### Deployment

You are now ready to deploy your project.

If you have not already done so, save your progress within `git` and then push the commit(s) to the GitHub repository:

```sh
# Add all files
$ git add -A
# Commit w/ message
$ git commit -m "working example"
# Push commit(s) to remote
$ git push -u origin main
```

Your work now resides within the GitHub repository, which means that Pages is able to access it too.

> If this is your first Cloudflare Pages project, refer to the [Get started guide](/get-started) for a complete walkthrough. After selecting the appropriate GitHub repository, you must configure your project with the following build settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is your first Cloudflare Pages project, refer to [Get started](/get-started) for a complete setup guide. After selecting the appropriate GitHub repository, you must configure your project with the following build settings:
```

* **Project name** – Your choice
* **Production branch** – `main`
* **Framework preset** – None
* **Build command** – None / Empty
* **Build output directory** – `public`

> After clicking the **Save and Deploy** button, your Pages project will begin its first deployment. When successful, you will be presented with a unique `*.pages.dev` subdomain and a link to your live demo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After selecting **Save and Deploy**, your Pages project will begin its first deployment. When successful, you will be presented with a unique `*.pages.dev` subdomain and a link to your live demo.
```

---
updated: 2021-11-30
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: "📝 Tutorial"
pcx-content-type: tutorial
---

# Add an HTML Form with Formspree

> Almost every website, whether it's a simple HTML portfolio page, or a complex javascript application, will need a form to collect user data. [Formspree](https://formspree.io) is a backend service that handles form processing and storage, allowing developers to include forms on their website without writing server-side code or functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost every website, whether it is a simple HTML portfolio page or a complex JavaScript application, will need a form to collect user data. [Formspree](https://formspree.io) is a back-end service that handles form processing and storage, allowing developers to include forms on their website without writing server-side code or functions.
```

> In this tutorial, you will create a `<form>` using plain HTML and CSS and add it to a static HTML website hosted on Cloudflare Pages. Refer to the [Get started guide](/get-started) guide to familiarize yourself with the platform. You'll use Formspree to collect the submitted data, and send out email notifications when new submissions arrive, without requiring any javascript or backend coding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will create a `<form>` using plain HTML and CSS and add it to a static HTML website hosted on Cloudflare Pages. Refer to the [Get started guide](/get-started) guide to familiarize yourself with the platform. You will use Formspree to collect the submitted data and send out email notifications when new submissions arrive, without requiring any JavaScript or back-end coding.
```

### Setup

To begin, create a [new GitHub repository](https://repo.new/). Then create a new local directory on your machine, initialize git, and attach the GitHub location as a remote destination:

```sh
# create new directory
$ mkdir new-project
# enter new directory
$ cd new-project
# initialize git
$ git init
# attach remote
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:<username>/<repo>.git
# change default branch name
$ git branch -M main
```

You may now begin working in the `new-project` directory you created.

> ### The Website Markup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The website markup
```

> You will only be using plain HTML for this example project. The home page will include a simple "Contact Us" form that accepts a name, email address and message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will only be using plain HTML for this example project. The home page will include a Contact Us form that accepts a name, email address, and message. 
```

<Aside type="note">

> The form code is adapted from the [HTML Forms tutorial](/tutorials/forms). For a more in-depth explanation of how HTML forms work, and additional learning resources, please refer to that tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form code is adapted from the HTML Forms tutorial. For a more in-depth explanation of how HTML forms work and additional learning resources, refer to the [HTML Forms tutorial](/tutorials/forms).
```

</Aside>

> Here's the form code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form code:
```

```html
<form method="POST" action="/">
  <label for="name">Full Name</label>
  <input id="name" type="text" name="name" pattern="[A-Za-z]+" required />

  <label for="email">Email Address</label>
  <input id="email" type="email" name="email" required />

  <label for="message">Message</label>
  <textarea id="message" name="message" required></textarea>

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

> <Aside type="note">
> 
> A few notes: 
> 
> - The `action` attribute determines where the form data is sent. We will update this later to send form data to Formspree.
> - All `<input>` tags must have a unique `name` in order to capture the user's data. 
> - The `for` and `id` values must match in order to link the `<label>` with the corresponding `<input>` for accessibility tools like screen readers.
> - See the [HTML Forms tutorial](/tutorials/forms#Overview) for further discussion of how to build an HTML form.
> 
> </Aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `action` attribute determines where the form data is sent. You will update this later to send form data to Formspree. All `<input>` tags must have a unique `name` in order to capture the user's data. The `for` and `id` values must match in order to link the `<label>` with the corresponding `<input>` for accessibility tools like screen readers.

<Aside type="note">

Refer to the [HTML Forms tutorial](/tutorials/forms#Overview) on how to build an HTML form.

</Aside>

```

> To add this form to your website, first create a `public/index.html` in your project directory. The `public` directory should contain all front-end assets, and this `index.html` file will serve as the home page for the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add this form to your website, first, create a `public/index.html` in your project directory. The `public` directory should contain all front-end assets, and the `index.html` file will serve as the home page for the website.
```

Copy and paste the following content into your `public/index.html` file, which includes the above form:

```html
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf8">
    <title>Form Demo</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
  </head>
  <body>

    <!-- the form from above -->

    <form method="POST" action="/">
      <label for="name">Full Name</label>
      <input id="name" type="text" name="name" pattern="[A-Za-z]+" required />

      <label for="email">Email Address</label>
      <input id="email" type="email" name="email" required />

      <label for="message">Message</label>
      <textarea id="message" name="message" required></textarea>

      <button type="submit">Submit</button>
    </form>

  </body>
</html>
```

> Now you have an HTML document containing a "Contact-Us" form with a few fields for the user to fill out. However you haven't set the `action` attribute yet to a server that can handle the form data. You'll do that in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have an HTML document containing a Contact-Us form with several fields for the user to fill out. However, you have not yet set the `action` attribute to a server that can handle the form data. You will do this in the next section of this tutorial.
```

<Aside type="info" header="GitHub Repository">

The source code for this example is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/formspree/formspree-example-cloudflare-html). It is a live Pages application with a [live demo](https://formspree-example-cloudflare-html.pages.dev/) available, too.

</Aside>

> ### The Formspree Backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Formspree back end
```

The HTML form is complete, however, when the user submits this form, the data will be sent in a `POST` request to the `/` URL. No server exists to process the data at that URL, so it will cause an error. To fix that, create a new Formspree form, and copy its unique URL into the form's `action`.  

> To create a Formspree form, first [sign up for an account on Formspree](https://formspree.io/register).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Formspree form, sign up for [an account on Formspree](https://formspree.io/register).
```

> Next, create a new form with the `+ New form` button, call it "Contact-us form" and update the recipient email to an email where you wish to receive your form submissions. Then click `Create Form`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a new form with the **+ New form** button. Name it `Contact-us form` and update the recipient email to an email where you wish to receive your form submissions. Then select **Create Form**.
```

<GatsbyImage image="./new-form-dialog.png" alt="Creating a Formspree form" />

![Creating a Formspree form](./new-form-dialog.png)

> You’ll then be presented with instructions on how to integrate your new form. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will then be presented with instructions on how to integrate your new form. 
```

![Formspree endpoint](./form-endpoint.png)

Copy the `Form Endpoint` URL and paste it into the `action` attribute of the form you created above. 

```html
<form method="POST" action="https://formspree.io/f/mqldaqwx">

<!-- replace with your own formspree endpoint -->

```

Now when you submit your form, you should be redirected to a thank-you page. The form data will be submitted to your account on Formspree.io. 

From here you can adjust your form processing logic to change the [redirect page](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360012378333--Thank-You-redirect), update the [notification email address](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/115008379348-Changing-a-form-email-address), or add plugins like [Google Sheets](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360036563573-Use-Google-Sheets-to-send-your-submissions-to-a-spreadsheet), [Slack](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us/articles/360045648933-Send-Slack-notifications) and more. 

> For more help setting up Formspree you can check out the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more help setting up Formspree, refer to the following resources:
```

> - For general help with formspree check out the [Formspree help site](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us) 
> - For examples and inspiration for your own HTML forms, see the [Formspree form library](https://formspree.io/library) 
> - For tips on integrating Formspree with popular platforms like Next.js, Gatsby and Eleventy, check out the [Formspree guides](https://formspree.io/guides)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For general help with Formspree, refer to the [Formspree help site](https://help.formspree.io/hc/en-us).
- For examples and inspiration for your own HTML forms, review the [Formspree form library](https://formspree.io/library).
- For tips on integrating Formspree with popular platforms like Next.js, Gatsby and Eleventy, refer to the [Formspree guides](https://formspree.io/guides).
```
